From ancient times,
Jehovah has directed his people to build.
The joyful work of constructing
and remodeling buildings
to advance pure worship
has continued in our time.
But who could have anticipated
the tremendous scale and need
for today’s worldwide building work,
requiring so many volunteers,
tools, equipment,
and often working in challenging situations?
With all this building comes
the risk of accidents
that can result in serious injury.
That’s why we, as Jehovah’s people,
care deeply about protecting
the lives and safety
of all our fellow construction volunteers.
This is not a hypothetical consideration.
Sadly, some of our brothers and sisters
have experienced
serious injuries
while volunteering on projects
—some, the most serious imaginable.
Our Global Life Safety
and Loss Prevention Guidelines
clearly state:
“Our goal is to have
an accident-free environment
“with minimum loss . . .
“This zero-accident goal can be accomplished
“if each one realizes that his attitude
“toward [the] life safety and loss prevention
reflects his spirituality.”
How can we accomplish this?
Let’s consider three important aspects:
our attitude toward our work,
how we plan for it,
and how we work to avoid potential danger.
First, our attitude.
Proverbs 16:18 tells us:
“Pride is before a crash,
and a haughty spirit before stumbling.”
No matter how skilled or experienced
we may be,
we need to humbly follow safety direction.
We also need to show modesty
if we’re inexperienced
and let others train us properly
before we begin to work
with unfamiliar equipment.
Ecclesiastes 10:9 tells us:
“The one who quarries stones
may be hurt by them,
and the one who splits logs
may be endangered by them.”
Many aspects of construction
are inherently dangerous.
This underscores our second aspect:
the need to plan wisely.
How can we plan for a safe work experience?
We have tools to help.
The guideline Working Together Safely
provides standards for our construction
and maintenance projects.
It also reminds us
of our personal responsibility.
Are you familiar with its sound guidance?
Our Job Hazard Analysis forms
for maintenance and construction
help us anticipate potential safety risks.
Let’s examine just a few
of the potential dangers
it helps us to foresee
in advance of working on a project.
This pipe here has a leak
and needs to be fixed.
We’re going to have to do a weld here,
I’m afraid.
Well, we’ll have to insulate this part here,
in between the wall and the pipe.
OK.
Otherwise, we’ll end up creating
a fire hazard here in the Kingdom Hall.
I see! Let me write that down.
I was thinking, too, we should assign someone
to stand by with a fire extinguisher
while the weld is being done.
You’re right.
And also I think we should put someone
on fire-hazard duty
to make sure nothing catches fire
after the weld is done.
Mm. I agree. Good idea.
Perfect.
I’ll go ahead and make the assignments then.
OK, I’ll get things ready here.
Let’s do it.
I think that here the brothers
are going to need safety boots
so that they don’t slip and fall.
They’re also going to need safety harnesses
since they’ll be up pretty high.
What do you think?
Do you remember if all the brothers assigned
were trained to work with safety harnesses?
We’re also going to need a support team
to be ready to help in case of an accident.
It would be best if we could have
less people up on the roof.
But it’s impossible to inspect things
from down here, right?
I have an idea.
What if we put a camera on a long pole
and do the inspection from down here?
We can check everything out
from one end to the other.
OK! Great idea, sounds good.
This wise planning reflects the third aspect
of achieving our zero-accident goal:
Pay close attention to direction
so we can work to eliminate or avoid danger.
When working on a large project
or a smaller one, including maintenance work,
the right attitude, planning, and actions
will help keep our brothers and sisters safe.
So remember the steps we can take
to ensure safety.
First, have Jehovah’s view of things.
Life is precious.
Second, be wise
and anticipate the potential hazards.
And third,
once you anticipate a risk,
take precautions to remove or reduce it.
Never forget
how serious maintaining safety is.
It demonstrates obedience to Jehovah
and affects our relationship with him.
While we are working
on theocratic building projects,
we cannot expect miraculous protection.
Just as Jehovah wants us to exert ourselves
in preaching to others to help save lives,
he requires us to work obediently
to protect our fellow volunteers.
Jehovah tells us in Proverbs:
“Safeguard practical wisdom
and thinking ability;
“they will give you life
and be an adornment for your neck;
then you will walk on your way in safety.”
Let us all act wisely
and walk safely
as we work together
on Kingdom Hall projects and maintenance
and construction projects.